# Dynamic Few-Shot Visual Learning without Forgetting
* **Author**: Spyros Gidaris、Nikos Komodakis
* **Abstract**: The human visual system has the remarkably ability to be able to effortlessly learn novel concepts from only a few examples. Mimicking the same behavior on machine learning vision systems is an interesting and very challenging research problem with many practical advantages on real world vision applications. In this context, the goal of our work is to devise a few-shot visual learning system that during test time it will be able to  efficiently learn novel categories from only a few training data while at the same time it will not forget the initial categories on which it was trained (here called base categories). To achieve that goal we propose (a) to extend an object recognition system with an attention based few-shot  classification weight generator, and (b) to redesign the classifier of a ConvNet model as the cosine similarity function between feature  representations and classification weight vectors. The latter, apart from unifying the recognition of both novel and base categories, it also leads to feature representations that generalize better on “unseen” categories. We extensively evaluate our approach on Mini-ImageNet where we manage to improve the prior state-of-the-art on few-shot recognition (i.e., we achieve 56:20% and 73:00% on the 1-shot and 5-shot settings respectively) while at the same time we do not sacrifice any accuracy on the base categories, which is a characteristic that most prior approaches lack. Finally, we apply our approach on the recently introduced few-shot benchmark of Bharath and Girshick [4] where we also achieve stateof-the-art results.
* **Summary**: In our work we propose a dynamic few-shot object recognition system that is able to quickly learn novel categories without forgetting the base categories on which it was trained, a property that most prior approaches on the few-shot learning task neglect to fulfill. To achieve that goal we propose a novel attention based few-shot classification weight generator as well as a cosine-similarity based ConvNet classifier. This allows to  recognize in a unified way both novel and base categories and also leads to learn feature representations with better generalization capabilities. We evaluate our framework on Mini-ImageNet and the recently introduced fews-shot benchmark of Bharath and Girshick [4] where we demonstrate that our approach is capable of both maintaining high recognition accuracy on base categories and to achieve excellent few-shot recognition accuracy on novel categories that surpasses prior state-of-the-art approaches by a significant margin.
* **Keywords**: Few-Shot Visual Learning
* **code**: https://github.com/gidariss/FewShotWithoutForgetting
* **dataset**：Mini-ImageNet dataset

