# Siamese Neural Networks for One-shot Image Recognition

* **Author**:Gregory Koch GKOCH@CS.TORONTO.EDU
  Richard Zemel ZEMEL@CS.TORONTO.EDU
  Ruslan Salakhutdinov RSALAKHU@CS.TORONTO.EDU
* **Abstract**: The process of learning good features for machine learning applications can be very computationally expensive and may prove difficult in
  cases where little data is available. A prototypical example of this is the one-shot learning setting, in which we must correctly make predictions given only a single example of each new class. In this paper, we explore a method for learning siamese neural networks which employ a unique structure to naturally rank similarity between inputs. Once a network has been tuned, we can then capitalize on powerful discriminative features to generalize the predictive power of the network not just to new data, but to entirely new classes from unknown distributions. Using a convolutional architecture, we are able to achieve strong results which exceed those of other deep learning models with near state-of-the-art performance on one-shot classification tasks.
* **Summary**: We have presented a strategy for performing one-shot classification by first learning deep convolutional siamese neural networks for verification. We outlined new results comparing the performance of our networks to an existing state-of-the-art classifier developed for the Omniglot
  data set. Our networks outperform all available baselines by a significant margin and come close to the best numbers achieved by the previous authors. We have argued that the strong performance of these networks on this task indicate not only that human-level accuracy is possible with our
  metric learning approach, but that this approach should extend to one-shot learning tasks in other domains, especially for image classification. In this paper, we only considered training for the verifica-tion task by processing image pairs and their distortions using a global affine transform. We have been experimenting with an extended algorithm that exploits the data about the individual stroke trajectories to produce final computed  distortions (Figure 8). By imposing local affine transformations on the strokes and overlaying them into a composite image, we are hopeful that we can learn features which are better adapted to the variations that are commonly seen in new examples.
* **Keywords**: Few shot-Learning、Siamese Neural Networks
* **dataset**：Omniglot、MNIST

