# Edge-Labeling Graph Neural Network for Few-shot Learning
* **Author**: *Jongmin Kim、Taesup Kim、Sungwoong Kim、Chang D.Yoo
* **Abstract**: In this paper, we propose a novel edge-labeling graph neural network (EGNN), which adapts a deep neural network
  on the edge-labeling graph, for few-shot learning. The previous graph neural network (GNN) approaches in few-shot learning have been based on the node-labeling framework, which implicitly models the intra-cluster similarity and the inter-cluster dissimilarity. In contrast, the proposed EGNN learns to predict the edge-labels rather than the node-labels on the graph that enables the evolution of an explicit clustering by iteratively updating the edgelabels with direct exploitation of both intra-cluster similarity and the inter-cluster dissimilarity. It is also well suited for performing on various numbers of classes without retraining, and can be easily extended to perform a transductive inference. The parameters of the EGNN are learned by episodic training with an edge-labeling loss to obtain a well-generalizable model for unseen low-data problem. On both of the supervised and semi-supervised few-shot image classification tasks with two benchmark datasets, the proposed EGNN significantly improves the performances over the existing GNNs.
* **Summary**: This work addressed the problem of few-shot learning, especially on the few-shot classification task. We proposed the novel EGNN which aims to iteratively update edgelabels for inferring a query association to an existing support clusters. In the process of EGNN, a number of alternative
  node and edge feature updates were performed using explicit intra-cluster similarity and inter-cluster dissimilarity through the graph layers having different parameter sets, and the edge-label prediction was obtained from the final edge feature. The edge-labeling loss was used to update the parameters of the EGNN with episodic training. Ex-perimental results showed that the proposed EGNN outperformed other few-shot learning algorithms on both of the supervised and semi-supervised few-shot image classification tasks. The proposed framework is applicable to a broad variety of other meta-clustering tasks. For future work, we can consider another training loss which is related to the valid graph clustering such as the  cycle loss [35]. Another promising direction is graph sparsification, e.g. constructing K-nearest neighbor graphs [50], that will make our algorithm more scalable to larger number of shots.
* **Keywords**: Few-Shot  Learning
* **code**: https://github.com/khy0809/fewshot-egnn
* **dataset**：miniImageNet、tieredImageNet
