# LaSO: Label-Set Operations networks for multi-label few-shot learning
* **Author**: Amit Alfassy、Leonid Karlinsky、 Amit Aides、Joseph Shtok *et al*.
* **Abstract**: Example synthesis is one of the leading methods to tackle the problem of few-shot learning, where only a small number of
  samples per class are available. However, current synthesis approaches only address the scenario of a single category label per image. In this work, we propose a novel technique for synthesizing samples with multiple labels for the (yet unhandled) multi-label few-shot classification scenario. We propose to combine pairs of given examples in feature space, so that the resulting synthesized feature vectors will correspond to examples whose label sets are obtained through certain set operations on the label sets of the corresponding input pairs. Thus, our method is capable of producing a sample containing the intersection, union or set-difference of labels present in two input samples. As we show, these set operations generalize to labels unseen during training. This enables performing augmentation on examples of novel categories, thus, facilitating multi-label few-shot classifier learning. We conduct numerous experiments showing promising results for the label-set manipulation capabilities of the proposed approach, both directly (using the classification and retrieval metrics), and in the context of performing data augmentation for multi-label few-shot learning. We  propose a benchmark for this new and challenging task and show that our method compares favorably to all the common baselines. Our code will be made available upon acceptance.
* **Summary**: In this paper we have presented the label set manipulation concept and have demonstrated its utility for a new and challenging task of the multi-label few-shot classification. Our results show that label set manipulation holds a good potential for this and potentially other interesting applications, and we hope that this paper will convince more researchers to look into this interesting problem. Natural images are inherently multi-label. We have focused on two major sources of labels: objects and attributes. Yet, other possible sources of image labels, such as the background context, object actions, interactions and relations, etc., may be further explored in a future work. One of the interesting future directions of this work include exploring additional architectures for the proposed LaSO networks. For example an encoder-decoder architecture, where the encoder and the decoder subnets are shared between the LaSO networks, and the label-set operations themselves are implemented between the encoder and the decoder via the analytic expressions proposed in section 4.1.2. This alternative architecture has the potential to disentangle the feature space into a basis of independent constituents related to independent labels facilitating the easier use of analytic variants in such a disentangled space. Another interesting future research direction is to use the proposed techniques in the context of few-shot multi-label semi-supervised learning, where a large scale unlabeled data is available, and the proposed approach could be used for automatic retrieval of more auto-labeled examples
  with arbitrarily mixed label sets (obtained by mixing the few provided examples). In addition, the proposed approach might also prove useful for the interesting visual dialog use case, where the user can manipulate the returned query results by pointing out or showing visual examples of what she/he likes or doesn’t like. Finally, the approach proposed in this work is related to a well known issue in Machine Learning, known as dataset bias [35] or out-of-context recognition [1, 5]. An interesting future work direction for our proposed approach is to help reducing the bias dictated by the specific provided set of images by enabling a better control over the content of the samples.
* **Keywords**: Few-Shot  Learning
* **code**: will be made available upon acceptance.
* **dataset**：MSCOCO、CelebA
