# Learning to Compare: Relation Network for Few-Shot Learning
* **Author**: Flood Sung、Yongxin Yang、 Li Zhang、Tao Xiang *et al*.
* **Abstract**: We present a conceptually simple, flexible, and general framework for few-shot learning, where a classifier must learn to recognise new  classes given only few examples from each. Our method, called the Relation Network (RN), is trained end-to-end from scratch. During meta-learning, it learns to learn a deep distance metric to compare a small number of images within episodes, each of which is designed to simulate the few-shot setting. Once trained, a RN is able to classify images of new classes by computing relation scores between query images and the few examples of each new class without further updating the network. Besides providing improved performance on few-shot learning, our framework is easily extended to zero-shot learning. Extensive experiments on five benchmarks demonstrate that our simple approach provides a unified and effective approach for both of these two tasks.
* **Summary**: We proposed a simple method called the Relation Network for few-shot and zero-shot learning. Relation network learns an embedding and a deep non-linear distance metric for comparing query and sample items. Training the network end-to-end with episodic training tunes the embedding and distance metric for effective few-shot learning. This ap-proach is far simpler and more efficient than recent few-shot meta-learning approaches, and produces state-of-the-art results. It further proves effective at both conventional and generalised zero-shot settings.
* **Keywords**: Few-Shot  Learning
* **code**: https://github.com/lzrobots/DeepEmbeddingModel_ZSL
* **dataset**：Omniglot and miniImagenet、Animals with Attributes (AwA) and Caltech-UCSD Birds-200-2011 (CUB).
