# Matching Networks for One Shot Learning
* **Author**: Oriol Vinyals、Charles Blundell、Timothy Lillicrap、Koray Kavukcuoglu *et al*.
* **Abstract**: Learning from a few examples remains a key challenge in machine learning. Despite recent advances in important domains such as vision and language, the standard supervised deep learning paradigm does not offer a satisfactory solution for learning new concepts rapidly from little data. In this work, we employ ideas from metric learning based on deep neural features and from recent advances that augment neural networks with external memories. Our framework learns a network that maps a small labelled support set and an unlabelled example to its label, obviating the need for fine-tuning to adapt to new class types. We then define one-shot learning problems on vision (using Omniglot, ImageNet) and language tasks. Our algorithm improves one-shot accuracy on ImageNet from 87.6% to 93.2% and from 88.0% to 93.8% on Omniglot compared to competing approaches. We also demonstrate the usefulness of the same model on language modeling by introducing a one-shot task on the Penn Treebank.
* **Summary**:In this paper we introduced Matching Networks, a new neural architecture that, by way of its corresponding training regime, is capable of state-of-the-art performance on a variety of one-shot classification tasks. There are a few key insights in this work. Firstly, one-shot learning is much
  easier if you train the network to do one-shot learning. Secondly, non-parametric structures in a neural network make it easier for networks to remember and adapt to new training sets in the same tasks. Combining these observations together yields Matching Networks. Further, we have defined new one-shot tasks on ImageNet, a reduced version of ImageNet (for rapid experimentation), and a language modeling task. An obvious drawback of our model is the fact that, as the support set S grows in size, the computation for each gradient update becomes more expensive. Although there are sparse and sampling-based methods to alleviate this, much of our future efforts will concentrate around this limitation. Further, as exemplified in the ImageNet dogs subtask, when the label distribution has obvious biases (such as being fine grained), our model suffers. We feel this is an area with exciting challenges which we hope to keep improving in future work.
* **Keywords**: Few-Shot  Learning
* **code**: 
* **dataset**：Omniglot 、ImageNet、Penn Treebank dataset

