# Learning to Learn: Meta-Critic Networks for Sample Efficient Learning

* **Author**:Flood Sung、Li Zhang、Tao Xiang、Timothy Hospedales *et al*.
* **Abstract**: We propose a novel and  exible approach to meta-learning for learning-to-learn from only a few examples. Our framework is motivated by actor-critic reinforcement learning, but can be applied to both reinforcement and supervised learning. The key idea is to learn a meta-critic: an action-value function neural network that learns to criticise any actor trying to solve any specied task. For supervised learning, this corresponds to the novel idea of a trainable task-parametrised loss generator. This meta-critic approach provides a route to knowledge transfer that can 
  exibly deal with few-shot and semi-supervised conditions for both reinforcement and supervised learning. Promising results are shown on both reinforcement and supervised learning problems.
* **Summary**:We have presented a very  exible meta-learning method for few-shot learning that applies to both reinforcement and supervised learning settings, and can seamlessly exploit unlabelled data. Promising results are obtained on a variety of problems. In future work we would like to evaluate our method to more challenging problems in supervised learning and RL for control in terms of diculty and input/output dimensionality; and extend it to the continual learning setting.
* **Keywords**: Computer Science - Learning
* **code**: 
* **dataset**：sinusoidal a sin(x+b) and linear cx+d functions、Dependant Multi-arm Bandit

