# META-LEARNING FOR SEMI-SUPERVISED FEW-SHOT CLASSIFICATION

* **Author**:Mengye Ren、 Eleni Triantafillou、Sachin Ravi、Jake Snell *et al*.
* **Abstract**: In few-shot classification, we are interested in learning algorithms that train a classifier from only a handful of labeled examples. Recent progress in few-shot classification has featured meta-learning, in which a parameterized model for a learning algorithm is defined and trained on episodes representing different classification problems, each with a small labeled training set and its corresponding test set. In this work, we advance this few-shot classification paradigm towards a scenario where unlabeled examples are also available within each episode. We consider two situations: one where all unlabeled examples are assumed to belong to the same set of classes as the labeled examples of the episode, as well as the more challenging situation where examples from other distractor classes are also provided. To address this paradigm, we propose novel extensions of Prototypical Networks (Snell et al., 2017) that are augmented with the ability to use unlabeled examples when producing prototypes. These models are trained in an end-to-end way on episodes, to learn to leverage the unlabeled examples successfully. We evaluate these methods on versions of the Omniglot and miniImageNet benchmarks, adapted to this new framework augmented with unlabeled examples. We also propose a new split of ImageNet, consisting of a large set of classes, with a hierarchical structure. Our experiments confirm that our Prototypical Networks can learn to improve their predictions due to unlabeled examples, much like a semi-supervised algorithm would.
* **Summary**:In this work, we propose a novel semi-supervised few-shot learning paradigm, where an unlabeled set is added to each episode. We also  extend the setup to more realistic situations where the unlabeled set has novel classes distinct from the labeled classes. To address the problem that current fewshot classification datasets are too small for a labeled vs. unlabeled split and also lack hierarchical levels of labels, we introduce a new dataset, tieredImageNet. We propose several novel extensions of Prototypical Networks, and they show consistent improvements under semi-supervised settings compared to our baselines. As future work, we are working on incorporating fast weights (Ba et al., 2016; Finn et al., 2017) into our framework so that examples can have different embedding representations given the contents in the episode.
* **Keywords**: Few shot-Learning
* **code**: https://github.com/renmengye/few-shot-ssl-public
* **dataset**：Omniglot、miniImageNet、tieredImageNet

