# Prototypical Networks for Few-shot Learning

* **Author**:Jake Snell、Kevin Swersky、Richard S. Zemel
* **Abstract**: We propose prototypical networks for the problem of few-shot classification, where a classifier must generalize to new classes not seen in the training set, given only a small number of examples of each new class. Prototypical networks learn a metric space in which classification can be performed by computing distances to prototype representations of each class. Compared to recent approaches for few-shot learning, they reflect a simpler inductive bias that is beneficial in this limited-data regime, and achieve excellent results. We provide an analysis showing that some simple design decisions can yield substantial improvements over recent approaches involving complicated architectural choices and meta-learning. We further extend prototypical networks to zero-shot learning and achieve state-of-theart results on the CU-Birds dataset.
* **Summary**:We have proposed a simple method called prototypical networks for few-shot learning based on the idea that we can represent each class by the mean of its examples in a representation space learned by a neural network. We train these networks to specifically perform well in the few-shot setting by using episodic training. The approach is far simpler and more efficient than recent meta-learning approaches, and produces state-of-the-art results even without sophisticated extensions developed for matching networks (although these can be applied to prototypical nets as well). We show how performance can be greatly improved by carefully considering the chosen distance metric, and by modifying the episodic learning procedure. We further demonstrate how to generalize prototypical networks to the zero-shot setting, and achieve state-of-the-art results on the CUB-200 dataset. A natural direction for future work is to utilize Bregman divergences other than squared Euclidean distance, corresponding to class-conditional distributions beyond spherical Gaussians. We conducted preliminary explorations of this, including learning a variance per dimension for each class. This did not lead to any empirical gains, suggesting that the embedding network has enough flexibility on its own without requiring additional fitted parameters per class. Overall, the simplicity and effectiveness of prototypical networks makes it a promising approach for few-shot learning.
* **Keywords**: Few shot-Learning、Prototypical Networks
* **code**: 
* **dataset**：Omniglot、miniImageNet

